Refer 22. Calculated Fields

First, Go to Datasets tab - Create a new dataset - Upload file - Data2.xlsx
Edit and Preview data
At the top left, "Add Calculated Field" - Sales, Cost, Profit, year, month, Profit Range. 
year and month are really not necessary as these can be easily derived in the analysis itself but just to demo caluclated fields on date these are shown.
Remember to Save and Publish this dataset.

Then use the modified dataset with calculated fields in Analysis.
Created a Pivot table instead of normal table so that table calculations like Percent of total, difference, Percent difference, Running total, Rank, Percentile etc can be calculated easily.
Remember to change "Calculate as" to "Table down".


Refer 23. Calculated Fields / Custom Measures

This is different from 22. Calculated Fields - In 22. Calculated Fields, we were operating on 2 different fields in "dataset".
Here, we will be operating on a single field in "analysis".
Now, suppose you want Profit Ratio for each country. 
Suppose, you do the usual way - drag country into dimension, profit and sales into measures - they become sum(profit) and sum(sales).
But for every country -> you cannot access the above sum(profit) or sum(sales) because these are not fields in the dataset / analysis.
You can only do profit/sales and that does not give the correct picture. profit and sales are at item level -> so for each item the ratio would be calculated and added up which is not waht we want.

Now, within the analysis, at the top left, add calculated fields Total Profit as SUM(PROFIT) and Total Sales as SUM(SALES).
Now, using these fields, you can create another calculated field Profit Ratio as Total Profit/Total Sales.
Drag these fields into the analysis.



Refer 23. Calculated Fields / Custom Measures

We want total Sales by country but also total sales by country for Bikes alone, average sales by country for Bikes alone, total sales by country for 2019 alone.
We need to have calculated fields using functions like sumif, avgif etc. 